So let's speak about the unstructured data.
Is it the case that we really cannot handle unstructured data in the warehouse,
in the data warehouse, in the classic data warehouse?
Actually, it might be possible.
So in the ETL process,
we can distill some data from JSON or from some texts,
and actually some current ETL tools support that,
and put them in a tabular format.
However, we might decide later that this extraction is too much of a strong commitment,
and it's a commitment without enough knowledge.
So if we got some Facebook comments,
we initially you might be interested in the number of
replies and then we would be interested in the frequency of angry words.
That's not like facts and dimension when you have those clears of
additive facts and group by dimensions and so on.
Sometimes of course some data is really hard to put even with ETL.
Sometimes things like deep json structures are hard to put in tabular format.
Also like long text and PDF documents
could be stored as blobs of data in a relational database.
But they're totally useless unless we extract something from them.
With the rise of the Big Data Technologies,
it became possible to store petabytes of data on commodity hardware
using HDFS and process it with tools of the Hadoop ecosystem.
That provide the much lower cost per terabyte compared to MPP,
the massively parallel processing databases which
were traditionally only afforded by very large organizations.
The idea is that the associated tools were made from day
one with parallel processing in mind,
and also another nice property about it is that,
the data it's not like you have
storage and then you load the storage into processing nodes and crunch them,
the storage nodes are in themselves processing nodes.
Finally, a nice property of Big Data Technologies is this idea of Schema-On-Read,
where one can load a CSV file and make query on
it without really creating table, inserting the data,
and going through a long tedious process,
which was actually very attractive for
processing unstructured or unstructured data in general.